commands/manage-project/add/add-feature.md, before:

# Add New Feature

Add feature to PRD and create feature specification.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md
@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/feature-spec/feature-title.yaml
@agent-documentor

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Spawn `@agent-documentor` to handle PRD updates and feature-spec creation asynchronously while you gather details. Provide:
- Target files (`product-requirements.yaml`, `feature-specs/F-##-<slug>.yaml`) and relevant templates in `@/file-templates/init-project/`
- Collected feature inputs, dependencies, and any open questions that require confirmation
- Instruction to align IDs and update metadata

Continue gathering answers or routing follow-up commands while the agent works. Rely on hook updates for status and only run `./agent-responses/await {agent_id}` when the written docs block the next step.

**Inline exception:** Direct edits are acceptable only when the user explicitly wants a tiny tweak (e.g., adjust priority). Otherwise, stick with asynchronous delegation.

### 1. Show Existing Features
```bash
./list-features.sh
```

### 2. Gather Feature Details
Ask for:
- Title
- Description
- Priority (P0/P1/P2/P3)
- Owner
- Dependencies (optional)

### 3. Present Draft & Confirm
Show PRD addition and spec file preview.

### 4. Update PRD
Add to `product-requirements.yaml` features list, update version/timestamp.

### 5. Create Feature Spec
Create `feature-specs/F-##-<slug>.yaml` with template structure.

### 6. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh --no-links
```

### 7. Next Steps
- Add stories: run /manage-project/add/add-story
- Add APIs: run /manage-project/add/add-api
- Add flows: run /manage-project/add/add-flow

## Edge Cases

### No feature-specs/ directory
Create: `mkdir -p <project_root>/docs/feature-specs`

### ID conflicts
Increment if F-06 exists: F-07, etc.

### Minimal info
Use defaults: P2 priority, "TBD" owner, draft status.

## Output
Updated PRD and new feature spec file.

Commit message:

feat(commands): add frontmatter to all command files
- Add YAML frontmatter with description field to all 41 command files
- Include argument-hint fields where applicable for better UX
- Improve command discoverability in /help interface
- Ensure consistency with slash commands documentation standards

Commands updated:
- Root commands (6): debug, git, git-doc, workflow, fix-build, init-better
- init-project workflow (9): Complete 00-orchestrate through 09-traceability-pass
- plan commands (1): requirements
- manage-project orchestration (3): orchestrate, start, init-workspace
- manage-project validation (3): check-consistency, check-coverage, check-api-alignment
- manage-project updates (5): update-requirements, update-feature, update-story, update-design, update-api
- manage-project additions (4): add-feature, add-story, add-flow, add-api
- manage-project implement (5): 00-orchestrate, investigate, plan, execute, validate
- manage-project query (1): current-state

commands/manage-project/add/add-feature.md, after:

---
description: Add new feature to product requirements and create specification
argument-hint: [feature name or description]
---

# Add New Feature

Add feature to PRD and create feature specification.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md
@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/feature-spec/feature-title.yaml
@agent-documentor

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Spawn `@agent-documentor` to handle PRD updates and feature-spec creation asynchronously while you gather details. Provide:
- Target files (`product-requirements.yaml`, `feature-specs/F-##-<slug>.yaml`) and relevant templates in `@/file-templates/init-project/`
- Collected feature inputs, dependencies, and any open questions that require confirmation
- Instruction to align IDs and update metadata

Continue gathering answers or routing follow-up commands while the agent works. Rely on hook updates for status and only run `./agent-responses/await {agent_id}` when the written docs block the next step.

**Inline exception:** Direct edits are acceptable only when the user explicitly wants a tiny tweak (e.g., adjust priority). Otherwise, stick with asynchronous delegation.

### 1. Show Existing Features
```bash
./list-features.sh
```

### 2. Gather Feature Details
Ask for:
- Title
- Description
- Priority (P0/P1/P2/P3)
- Owner
- Dependencies (optional)

### 3. Present Draft & Confirm
Show PRD addition and spec file preview.

### 4. Update PRD
Add to `product-requirements.yaml` features list, update version/timestamp.

### 5. Create Feature Spec
Create `feature-specs/F-##-<slug>.yaml` with template structure.

### 6. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh --no-links
```

### 7. Next Steps
- Add stories: run /manage-project/add/add-story
- Add APIs: run /manage-project/add/add-api
- Add flows: run /manage-project/add/add-flow

## Edge Cases

### No feature-specs/ directory
Create: `mkdir -p <project_root>/docs/feature-specs`

### ID conflicts
Increment if F-06 exists: F-07, etc.

### Minimal info
Use defaults: P2 priority, "TBD" owner, draft status.

## Output
Updated PRD and new feature spec file.
