commands/manage-project/add/add-story.md, before:

# Add User Story

Add user story linked to existing feature.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md
@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/user-stories/story-title.yaml

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Delegate story drafting to `@agent-documentor` so you can keep orchestrating. Provide:
- Output path (`user-stories/US-###-<slug>.yaml`) and template `@/file-templates/init-project/user-stories/story-title.yaml`
- Selected feature ID, gathered story inputs, acceptance criteria notes, and any pending questions
- Instruction to maintain sequential IDs and update metadata

Continue collecting user input or prepping next commands while the agent works. Monitor via hook updates; only `await` if you must review the draft before moving forward.

**Inline exception:** Apply quick manual edits only when the user asks for a single-field correction. Otherwise default to the async delegation path.

### 1. Show Available Features
```bash
./list-features.sh
```

### 2. Determine Next Story ID
```bash
./list-stories.sh --format ids
```

### 3. Gather Story Details
Ask for:
- Feature ID (must exist)
- User story: "As a [role], I want [goal], so that [benefit]"
- Acceptance criteria (2-5 Given/When/Then)

### 4. Present Draft & Confirm
Show story file preview.

### 5. Create Story File
Create `user-stories/US-###-<slug>.yaml` with template.

### 6. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh --no-links
```

### 7. Next Steps
- Add another story: run this command again
- Check coverage: run /manage-project/validate/check-coverage

## Edge Cases

### No user-stories/ directory
Create: `mkdir -p <project_root>/docs/user-stories`

### ID conflicts
Increment if US-113 exists: US-114, etc.

### Invalid feature ID
Verify exists with `./list-features.sh | grep "F-06"`

### Incomplete criteria
Require at least 2 acceptance criteria.

## Output
New user story file linked to feature.

Commit message:

feat(commands): add frontmatter to all command files
- Add YAML frontmatter with description field to all 41 command files
- Include argument-hint fields where applicable for better UX
- Improve command discoverability in /help interface
- Ensure consistency with slash commands documentation standards

Commands updated:
- Root commands (6): debug, git, git-doc, workflow, fix-build, init-better
- init-project workflow (9): Complete 00-orchestrate through 09-traceability-pass
- plan commands (1): requirements
- manage-project orchestration (3): orchestrate, start, init-workspace
- manage-project validation (3): check-consistency, check-coverage, check-api-alignment
- manage-project updates (5): update-requirements, update-feature, update-story, update-design, update-api
- manage-project additions (4): add-feature, add-story, add-flow, add-api
- manage-project implement (5): 00-orchestrate, investigate, plan, execute, validate
- manage-project query (1): current-state

commands/manage-project/add/add-story.md, after:

---
description: Add user story linked to existing feature with acceptance criteria
---

# Add User Story

Add user story linked to existing feature.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md
@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/user-stories/story-title.yaml

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Delegate story drafting to `@agent-documentor` so you can keep orchestrating. Provide:
- Output path (`user-stories/US-###-<slug>.yaml`) and template `@/file-templates/init-project/user-stories/story-title.yaml`
- Selected feature ID, gathered story inputs, acceptance criteria notes, and any pending questions
- Instruction to maintain sequential IDs and update metadata

Continue collecting user input or prepping next commands while the agent works. Monitor via hook updates; only `await` if you must review the draft before moving forward.

**Inline exception:** Apply quick manual edits only when the user asks for a single-field correction. Otherwise default to the async delegation path.

### 1. Show Available Features
```bash
./list-features.sh
```

### 2. Determine Next Story ID
```bash
./list-stories.sh --format ids
```

### 3. Gather Story Details
Ask for:
- Feature ID (must exist)
- User story: "As a [role], I want [goal], so that [benefit]"
- Acceptance criteria (2-5 Given/When/Then)

### 4. Present Draft & Confirm
Show story file preview.

### 5. Create Story File
Create `user-stories/US-###-<slug>.yaml` with template.

### 6. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh --no-links
```

### 7. Next Steps
- Add another story: run this command again
- Check coverage: run /manage-project/validate/check-coverage

## Edge Cases

### No user-stories/ directory
Create: `mkdir -p <project_root>/docs/user-stories`

### ID conflicts
Increment if US-113 exists: US-114, etc.

### Invalid feature ID
Verify exists with `./list-features.sh | grep "F-06"`

### Incomplete criteria
Require at least 2 acceptance criteria.

## Output
New user story file linked to feature.
