commands/init-project/00a-assess-existing.md, before:

# Assess Existing Documentation

Your job is to determine whether this is a greenfield (no docs) or brownfield (existing docs) project, then route to the appropriate workflow path.

---

## Process

1. **Check for docs directory:**
   - Look for `<project_root>/docs/` 
   - If missing → GREENFIELD, proceed to step 4

2. **Inventory existing documentation:**
   - List all files in `docs/`, `docs/user-flows/`, `docs/user-stories/`, `docs/feature-spec/`
   - Check for: `product-requirements.yaml`, `system-design.yaml`, `api-contracts.yaml`, `data-plan.yaml`, `design-spec.yaml`
   - Note any non-standard files (`.md`, old naming conventions, etc.)

3. **Validate existing structure:**
   - If validation scripts exist (`docs/check-project.sh`), run with `-v` flag
   - Check for:
     - ID conventions (F-##, US-###)
     - Required YAML fields (`title`, `template`, `status`, `last_updated`)
     - Cross-references (features ↔ stories, APIs ↔ specs)
   - Note gaps: missing docs, incomplete fields, broken links, ID conflicts

4. **Classification:**
   - **GREENFIELD:** No `docs/` or empty `docs/`
   - **BROWNFIELD-COMPLIANT:** Docs exist, follow template conventions, validation passes
   - **BROWNFIELD-LEGACY:** Docs exist but use old formats, missing IDs, or non-YAML

5. **Report findings:**
   ```
   Status: [GREENFIELD|BROWNFIELD-COMPLIANT|BROWNFIELD-LEGACY]
   
   Found:
   - PRD: [exists|missing|non-standard]
   - User Flows: [N files|missing]
   - User Stories: [N files|missing]
   - Feature Specs: [N files|missing]
   - System Design: [exists|missing]
   - API Contracts: [exists|missing]
   - Data Plan: [exists|missing]
   - Design Spec: [exists|missing]
   
   Issues:
   - [List gaps, ID conflicts, format issues]
   
   Recommendation: [next command to run]
   ```

6. **Route to next step:**
   - **GREENFIELD** → `/commands/init-project/01-prd.md` (start fresh sequence)
   - **BROWNFIELD-COMPLIANT** → `/commands/init-project/00b-selective-update.md` (targeted updates)
   - **BROWNFIELD-LEGACY** → `/commands/init-project/00c-normalize-legacy.md` (migration first)

---

## Output

Present the classification report, then **immediately run the recommended next command** without waiting for user confirmation. The user invoked init workflow; trust the routing.

Next command format:
```
Next: /commands/init-project/[01-prd|00b-selective-update|00c-normalize-legacy].md
```

The assessment is automatic—no user interaction needed unless critical issues require clarification.

Commit message:

feat(commands): add frontmatter to all command files
- Add YAML frontmatter with description field to all 41 command files
- Include argument-hint fields where applicable for better UX
- Improve command discoverability in /help interface
- Ensure consistency with slash commands documentation standards

Commands updated:
- Root commands (6): debug, git, git-doc, workflow, fix-build, init-better
- init-project workflow (9): Complete 00-orchestrate through 09-traceability-pass
- plan commands (1): requirements
- manage-project orchestration (3): orchestrate, start, init-workspace
- manage-project validation (3): check-consistency, check-coverage, check-api-alignment
- manage-project updates (5): update-requirements, update-feature, update-story, update-design, update-api
- manage-project additions (4): add-feature, add-story, add-flow, add-api
- manage-project implement (5): 00-orchestrate, investigate, plan, execute, validate
- manage-project query (1): current-state

commands/init-project/00a-assess-existing.md, after:

---
description: Assess documentation status and route to appropriate workflow path
---

# Assess Existing Documentation

Your job is to determine whether this is a greenfield (no docs) or brownfield (existing docs) project, then route to the appropriate workflow path.

---

## Process

1. **Check for docs directory:**
   - Look for `<project_root>/docs/` 
   - If missing → GREENFIELD, proceed to step 4

2. **Inventory existing documentation:**
   - List all files in `docs/`, `docs/user-flows/`, `docs/user-stories/`, `docs/feature-spec/`
   - Check for: `product-requirements.yaml`, `system-design.yaml`, `api-contracts.yaml`, `data-plan.yaml`, `design-spec.yaml`
   - Note any non-standard files (`.md`, old naming conventions, etc.)

3. **Validate existing structure:**
   - If validation scripts exist (`docs/check-project.sh`), run with `-v` flag
   - Check for:
     - ID conventions (F-##, US-###)
     - Required YAML fields (`title`, `template`, `status`, `last_updated`)
     - Cross-references (features ↔ stories, APIs ↔ specs)
   - Note gaps: missing docs, incomplete fields, broken links, ID conflicts

4. **Classification:**
   - **GREENFIELD:** No `docs/` or empty `docs/`
   - **BROWNFIELD-COMPLIANT:** Docs exist, follow template conventions, validation passes
   - **BROWNFIELD-LEGACY:** Docs exist but use old formats, missing IDs, or non-YAML

5. **Report findings:**
   ```
   Status: [GREENFIELD|BROWNFIELD-COMPLIANT|BROWNFIELD-LEGACY]
   
   Found:
   - PRD: [exists|missing|non-standard]
   - User Flows: [N files|missing]
   - User Stories: [N files|missing]
   - Feature Specs: [N files|missing]
   - System Design: [exists|missing]
   - API Contracts: [exists|missing]
   - Data Plan: [exists|missing]
   - Design Spec: [exists|missing]
   
   Issues:
   - [List gaps, ID conflicts, format issues]
   
   Recommendation: [next command to run]
   ```

6. **Route to next step:**
   - **GREENFIELD** → `/commands/init-project/01-prd.md` (start fresh sequence)
   - **BROWNFIELD-COMPLIANT** → `/commands/init-project/00b-selective-update.md` (targeted updates)
   - **BROWNFIELD-LEGACY** → `/commands/init-project/00c-normalize-legacy.md` (migration first)

---

## Output

Present the classification report, then **immediately run the recommended next command** without waiting for user confirmation. The user invoked init workflow; trust the routing.

Next command format:
```
Next: /commands/init-project/[01-prd|00b-selective-update|00c-normalize-legacy].md
```

The assessment is automatic—no user interaction needed unless critical issues require clarification.
