commands/plan/shared.md, before:

For this task, make a `.docs/plans/[plan-dir]/shared.md` document, containing high level information on files and architectures relevant to the new feature described.

First, if it does not exist yet, create a `.docs/plans/[feature-name] directory. If it exists already, read every file within `.docs/plans/[feature-name]/`.

The shared.md should name relevant files, tables, patterns, and docs, each with a brief description, using the following format:

```
# Title
[3-4 sentence breakdown of how the architecture fits together]

## Relevant Files
- /src/path: very brief description
- /more/paths: very brief description

## Relevant Tables
- Relevant table

## Relevant Patterns
**Patern name**: 1 setence, information dense description, link to example file if possible

## Relevant Docs
**file/path/of/doc**: You _must_ read this when working on [list of topics].
```

If, after reading the other files in .docs/plans/[feature-name], you do not have enough information to build this document, use codebase-research-analyst agents in parallel to research the different aspects of the document.

Each research agent should investigate an aspect of the codebase, and write their findings to `.docs/plans/[feature-name]/[research-topic].docs.md`

Upon finishing, read all of their finished research reports and write the shared.md file.

1. List .docs/plans/[feature-name]
2. Read every file within it
3. Create your todo list
4. Launch _parallel agents_ to perform any necessary research (multiple agents in the same function call)
5. Read their research documents
6. Write `.docs/plans/feature-name/shared.md`

Commit message:

refactor(planning): centralize planning templates to file-templates directory
- Move template content from inline command docs to dedicated template files
- Update planning commands to reference centralized templates
- Standardize agent references (@code-finder, @code-finder-advanced)
- Remove obsolete multi-agent-template.html
- Add feature documentation for new template system

commands/plan/shared.md, after:

For this task, make a `.docs/plans/[plan-dir]/shared.md` document, containing high level information on files and architectures relevant to the new feature: $ARGUMENTS.

First, if it does not exist yet, create a `.docs/plans/[feature-name]` directory. If it exists already, read every file within `.docs/plans/[feature-name]/`.

The shared.md should name relevant files, tables, patterns, and docs, each with a brief description, using the template `/Users/silasrhyneer/.claude/file-templates/shared.template.md`. It should also list other relevant files, like utility files, json logs, and whatever else will be used to implement the feature.

If, after reading the other files in .docs/plans/[feature-name], you do not have enough information to build this document, use @code-finder and/or @code-finder-advanced agents in parallel to research the different aspects of the document. Those agents should investigate an aspect of the codebase, and write their findings to `.docs/plans/[feature-name]/[research-topic].docs.md`, listing _all_ files relevant to their search topic in addition to their explanation.

Upon finishing, read all of their finished research reports and write the shared.md file.

In summary:

1. List .docs/plans/[feature-name]
2. Read every file within it
3. Create your todo list
4. Launch parallel agents to perform any necessary research
5. Read their research documents
6. Write `.docs/plans/feature-name/shared.md`
