commands/manage-project/update/update-story.md, before:

# Update User Story

Modify existing user story: status, criteria, feature link.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Delegate story updates to `@agent-documentor` so you can maintain orchestration flow. Provide:
- Target story file path and template expectations for metadata
- Requested edits (status, AC changes, links) plus any checks that must stay aligned (feature IDs, priority, etc.)

Continue coordinating follow-up work or gathering additional info while they update the doc. Monitor via hook updates and only `await` when their change blocks the next step.

**Inline exception:** Manual edits should be limited to explicit single-field fixes requested by the user. Otherwise stick with asynchronous delegation.

### 1. Show All Stories
```bash
./list-stories.sh
```

### 2. Select Story
Enter story ID (e.g., US-113).

### 3. Show Current State
Display story content.

### 4. Ask What to Update
- Status (incomplete/in-progress/complete)
- Acceptance criteria (add/modify/mark complete)
- User story text
- Feature link
- Priority/estimation

### 5. Validate Changes
Check feature exists if changing link.

### 6. Present Changes & Confirm
Show proposed updates.

### 7. Apply Updates
Update `user-stories/US-###-*.yaml` with `last_updated` timestamp.

### 8. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh --no-links
```

### 9. Next Steps
- Update another story: run this command again
- Check progress: `./list-stories.sh -s in-progress`

## Edge Cases

### Story not found
Available stories: US-101 through US-115.

### Invalid feature ID
Verify exists with `./list-features.sh | grep "F-06"`.

### Marking complete with incomplete criteria
Warn and get confirmation.

### Changing feature mid-implementation
Warn about potential confusion.

## Output
Updated story file with new status/criteria/feature link.

Commit message:

feat(commands): add frontmatter to all command files
- Add YAML frontmatter with description field to all 41 command files
- Include argument-hint fields where applicable for better UX
- Improve command discoverability in /help interface
- Ensure consistency with slash commands documentation standards

Commands updated:
- Root commands (6): debug, git, git-doc, workflow, fix-build, init-better
- init-project workflow (9): Complete 00-orchestrate through 09-traceability-pass
- plan commands (1): requirements
- manage-project orchestration (3): orchestrate, start, init-workspace
- manage-project validation (3): check-consistency, check-coverage, check-api-alignment
- manage-project updates (5): update-requirements, update-feature, update-story, update-design, update-api
- manage-project additions (4): add-feature, add-story, add-flow, add-api
- manage-project implement (5): 00-orchestrate, investigate, plan, execute, validate
- manage-project query (1): current-state

commands/manage-project/update/update-story.md, after:

---
description: Update user story and validate impact on feature specifications
---

# Update User Story

Modify existing user story: status, criteria, feature link.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Delegate story updates to `@agent-documentor` so you can maintain orchestration flow. Provide:
- Target story file path and template expectations for metadata
- Requested edits (status, AC changes, links) plus any checks that must stay aligned (feature IDs, priority, etc.)

Continue coordinating follow-up work or gathering additional info while they update the doc. Monitor via hook updates and only `await` when their change blocks the next step.

**Inline exception:** Manual edits should be limited to explicit single-field fixes requested by the user. Otherwise stick with asynchronous delegation.

### 1. Show All Stories
```bash
./list-stories.sh
```

### 2. Select Story
Enter story ID (e.g., US-113).

### 3. Show Current State
Display story content.

### 4. Ask What to Update
- Status (incomplete/in-progress/complete)
- Acceptance criteria (add/modify/mark complete)
- User story text
- Feature link
- Priority/estimation

### 5. Validate Changes
Check feature exists if changing link.

### 6. Present Changes & Confirm
Show proposed updates.

### 7. Apply Updates
Update `user-stories/US-###-*.yaml` with `last_updated` timestamp.

### 8. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh --no-links
```

### 9. Next Steps
- Update another story: run this command again
- Check progress: `./list-stories.sh -s in-progress`

## Edge Cases

### Story not found
Available stories: US-101 through US-115.

### Invalid feature ID
Verify exists with `./list-features.sh | grep "F-06"`.

### Marking complete with incomplete criteria
Warn and get confirmation.

### Changing feature mid-implementation
Warn about potential confusion.

## Output
Updated story file with new status/criteria/feature link.
