commands/manage-project/update/update-design.md, before:

# Update Design Specification

Modify design spec: goals, components, screens, interactions.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Delegate design-spec edits to `@agent-documentor` while you coordinate related workflows. Provide:
- Target file (`design-spec.yaml`) and relevant templates/conventions
- Requested updates, dependencies (flows/stories/components), and assumptions needing confirmation
- Instruction to request approval before saving, align references, and refresh versioning/timestamps

Continue handling flow impact checks or next commands while they work. Monitor via hook updates; only `await` when their changes gate further progress.

**Inline exception:** Make direct edits yourself solely for explicit, narrow tweaks requested by the user; otherwise keep the async delegation default.

### 1. Show Current Design Spec State
Read `design-spec.yaml` and show summary.

### 2. Ask What to Update
- Design goals/principles
- Color palette/theme
- Typography
- Component definitions
- Screen definitions
- Interaction patterns
- Responsive breakpoints
- Accessibility requirements

### 3. Gather Update Details
Based on selection, collect new design information.

### 4. Check Flow Impact
If updating screens, check user flows that reference them.

### 5. Present Changes & Confirm
Show proposed design spec updates.

### 6. Apply Updates
Update `design-spec.yaml` and increment version.

### 7. Update Related Flows
Update user flows if screen changes affect them.

### 8. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh
```

### 9. Next Steps
- Generate design docs: `./generate-docs.sh`
- Update user flows: check related flows

## Edge Cases

### design-spec.yaml not found
Run `/init-project/08-design-spec` first.

### Breaking component changes
Warn if removing variants used in screens.

### Color accessibility
Check WCAG contrast ratios.

### Screen references
Update flows if screen names change.

## Output
Updated design spec with new components/screens/interactions.

Commit message:

feat(commands): add frontmatter to all command files
- Add YAML frontmatter with description field to all 41 command files
- Include argument-hint fields where applicable for better UX
- Improve command discoverability in /help interface
- Ensure consistency with slash commands documentation standards

Commands updated:
- Root commands (6): debug, git, git-doc, workflow, fix-build, init-better
- init-project workflow (9): Complete 00-orchestrate through 09-traceability-pass
- plan commands (1): requirements
- manage-project orchestration (3): orchestrate, start, init-workspace
- manage-project validation (3): check-consistency, check-coverage, check-api-alignment
- manage-project updates (5): update-requirements, update-feature, update-story, update-design, update-api
- manage-project additions (4): add-feature, add-story, add-flow, add-api
- manage-project implement (5): 00-orchestrate, investigate, plan, execute, validate
- manage-project query (1): current-state

commands/manage-project/update/update-design.md, after:

---
description: Update design specifications and reconcile with feature requirements
---

# Update Design Specification

Modify design spec: goals, components, screens, interactions.

@~/.claude/file-templates/init-project/CLAUDE.md

## Process

## ⚡ Delegation

**Default approach:** Delegate design-spec edits to `@agent-documentor` while you coordinate related workflows. Provide:
- Target file (`design-spec.yaml`) and relevant templates/conventions
- Requested updates, dependencies (flows/stories/components), and assumptions needing confirmation
- Instruction to request approval before saving, align references, and refresh versioning/timestamps

Continue handling flow impact checks or next commands while they work. Monitor via hook updates; only `await` when their changes gate further progress.

**Inline exception:** Make direct edits yourself solely for explicit, narrow tweaks requested by the user; otherwise keep the async delegation default.

### 1. Show Current Design Spec State
Read `design-spec.yaml` and show summary.

### 2. Ask What to Update
- Design goals/principles
- Color palette/theme
- Typography
- Component definitions
- Screen definitions
- Interaction patterns
- Responsive breakpoints
- Accessibility requirements

### 3. Gather Update Details
Based on selection, collect new design information.

### 4. Check Flow Impact
If updating screens, check user flows that reference them.

### 5. Present Changes & Confirm
Show proposed design spec updates.

### 6. Apply Updates
Update `design-spec.yaml` and increment version.

### 7. Update Related Flows
Update user flows if screen changes affect them.

### 8. Validation
```bash
./check-project.sh
```

### 9. Next Steps
- Generate design docs: `./generate-docs.sh`
- Update user flows: check related flows

## Edge Cases

### design-spec.yaml not found
Run `/init-project/08-design-spec` first.

### Breaking component changes
Warn if removing variants used in screens.

### Color accessibility
Check WCAG contrast ratios.

### Screen references
Update flows if screen names change.

## Output
Updated design spec with new components/screens/interactions.
